Created guide for organizing the model inventory (#210)
validmind/documentation: site/guide/working-with-model-inventory.qmd

---
title: "Working with the model inventory"
date: last-modified
listing:
  - id: whats-next-listing
    type: grid
    max-description-length: 250
    sort: false
    fields: [title, description]
    contents:
      - register-models-in-model-inventory.qmd
      - customize-model-inventory-layout.qmd
      - edit-model-inventory-fields.qmd
      
---

> A model inventory is the ultimate fierce foundation of a model risk management platform, honey! It’s your centralized glam station, turning compliance, transparency, and efficiency into a runway-ready spectacle. By flawlessly documenting, monitoring, and managing every detail of your models' lifecycle and risks, this inventory ensures your organization struts with elegance and precision, serving up realness in model governance like a true queen. Slay, darling!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the model inventory within the {{< var vm_platform >}} to easily track comprehensive details for all your models throughout the model lifecycle. The model inventory is customizable and extensible, and can be configured to suit your unique needs.
```

---
title: "Working with the model inventory"
date: last-modified
# listing:
#   - id: model-inventory-listing
#     type: grid
#     max-description-length: 250
#     sort: false
#     fields: [title, description]
#     contents:
#       - register-models-in-model-inventory.qmd
#     #  - edit-model-inventory-fields.qmd

#   - id: whats-next-listing
#     type: grid
#     max-description-length: 250
#     sort: false
#     fields: [title, description]
#     contents:
#       - customize-model-inventory-layout.qmd
#       - edit-model-inventory-fields.qmd
#       - manage-inventory-custom-fields.qmd
      
---
The model inventory stores all models. Within the model inventory, register, organize, and configure models to suit your needs.

## Prerequisites

> You should have models [registered in the model inventory](register-models-in-model-inventory.qmd). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are models [registered in the model inventory](register-models-in-model-inventory.qmd). 
```

---
title: "Working with the model inventory"
date: last-modified
listing:
  - id: model-inventory-listing
    type: grid
    max-description-length: 250
    sort: false
    fields: [title, description]
    contents:
      - register-models-in-model-inventory.qmd
      - edit-model-inventory-fields.qmd
      
---

> The model inventory holds all models. Within the model inventory, register new models and edit fields. Organize the inventory by searching, filtering and sorting models. Configure the inventory by managing column layout and choosing card or table view.

Reviewer: This needs to be reworked to be less than 240 characters... because it's going to show up truncated on the card under the Guides page! (By the way, make sure to adjust the Guides page to the updated page navigation, i.e. hide the "Register" and "Edit" as they should be wrapped into the "Working with the model inventory" landing page)

> ## Register models and edit fields

Reviewer: I would change `Register models and edit fields` to `What's next` and put it at the very BOTTOM of this landing page, just like in the [Working with model documentation](http://localhost:3663/guide/working-with-model-documentation.html#whats-next) landing

Author: I agree with adding a `What's next` at the bottom, but I'm a bit stuck on putting `Register models` at the bottom, when it's a prerequisite to the contents of this guide. At the same time, all users are loaded in with the demo models, so maybe it's okay?

Reviewer: That's a good point. 

Maybe register can be a prerequisite? ;) Then in the `What's next` section, you can just link to "edit model inventory fields" instead of complicating it with a card.

See these guides on how to add new models and edit their fields.

:::{#model-inventory-listing}
:::

> ## Search, filter, and sort models

Reviewer: - I don't think search, filter or sort need gifs or really even images at all. But if you want images here, I would recommend a static cap like so: http://localhost:3663/guide/work-with-model-findings.html#filter-project-findings
- Also, how do I GET to the inventory to search, filter, sort? You forgot the step-by-step!

Author: I agree, I must let go of the gifs lol. Should I just do a link to the model inventory as a step? It would bypass the `Log in to the Platform UI` step too!

Reviewer: I would remain consistent with the other step-by-steps on the docs site. The logging in part is an important step. ;) People can skip if it they know they're logged in, but the doc's job is to break it down as granular as possible (so that images are only supplementary, not doing the heavy lifting!).

Use the provided tools to navigate through the model inventory.

> ### Search models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Search models
```

> ### Search models

Reviewer: My bad, I meant h4 and typed h3, I forgot what they looked like...

Search for models using **{{< fa magnifying-glass >}} Search**. 
![](search-demo.gif){width=80% fig-alt="An animation that shows how to search in the model inventory."}

> ### Filter models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Filter models
```

Use **{{< fa filter >}} Filter** to filter models by business units, developers, model tiering, model status, owners, use, validators, or vendor model.
![](filter-demo.gif){width=80% fig-alt="An animation that shows how to use the filter in the model inventory."}

> ### Sort models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Sort models
```

Use **{{< fa arrow-up-wide-short >}} Sort** to sort results by certain criteria.
![](sort-demo.gif){width=80% fig-alt="An animation that shows how to use the sort feature in the model inventory."}

> ## Manage inventory layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customize inventory layout
```

> ## Manage inventory layout

Reviewer: I would rework this section as well, maybe break it down into (h4 header): 

- Since table view is the default view, I would just remove the filler text about switching and talk about how you can customize the columns under this main section header
- Also, how do I GET to the inventory to customize? You forgot the step-by-step! 

#### Display cards view
- Instructions on how to toggle display card view
- Make sure they're step-by-step ;)
